I have been waiting for this for
so oh Jesus I have been waiting for
these switches for so long holy sh balls
I remember when we got the first inkling
that ubiquity was making 100 Gig
switches back in like 2019 2020 it's
been that long for us to finally have
one on hand to test out this is the ECS
aggregation it stands for Enterprise
campus switch and you know aggregation I
guess that one doesn't stand for
anything wow this is a different
unboxing experience it opens from the
top I kind of like that this is like how
big stuff arrives and I mean let's be
honest here this is a pretty big box for
a network switch are those
rails they are rails got a hardware kit
here power cables we'll get to that in a
minute there it is boys and girls oh my
God oh my God I thought at this point it
was a meme the whole like having
redundant power supplies on the ubiquity
switch we've wanted it for so long and
look at this a redundant hot swappable
power supply but why is there only one
what is this there's the other one this
is um it's very chill labeling for a
power supply so
550 Watts 100 to 240 volt that's good
not that much power but remember this is
not a Poe switch so in theory shouldn't
need that much
anyways just a little nice that's got
nice click too I'm so stoked about this
man you have no idea how long how long
have I been waiting to put two power
supplies in my ubiquity switch like this
ain't no way hell yeah brother how many
is that 1 2 3 4 five five fans and
they're hot swappable this is Enterprise
baby you guys finally did it slow clap
for ubiquity I promise I'm not being
sarcastic I'm actually just excited that
we're finally here great I mean these
are just little they're Delta fans
little single ones here very cute and
then here this is the money maker around
this side boys and girls we have 48 25
GB sfp28 ports along with six qsfp 28
100 Gig ports that works out to a
combined 3.6 terabit per second of
switching capacity in this bad girl
aside from all that there is still the
traditional ubiquity little screen on
the front which I'm sure is a
touchscreen you know surprisingly not
like a bunch of extra ventilation this
is a pretty normal ubiquity amount
there's no there's no extra on the side
it is a little different on the side
because it has rail holes I don't think
that they're like the rails on the cloud
key Enterprise where it's just a shelf
that they sit on this will probably be
the actual rails that actually slide in
and out okay these look like nice rails
oh yeah they're toolless I like that you
know in a universe where you were doing
things properly you would still screw
them in but I don't know what universe
that is cuz it's not the one I live in
King slide oh yeah okay so these are
just like these are just name brand
rails I don't remember what other
machine I saw with Kings slide rails but
they are a company that makes rails for
other companies from Taiwan the one
thing I can potentially see as an
improvement Point here is adding little
studs on this guy so that you can put
the slide on tool thisly and the best
part like I said earlier is we have two
why do we have two because this new
Switch amongst a bunch of other things
which I'll mention later has multi-link
aggregation which if you're not familiar
it allows you to take one device like a
server or another switch and Uplink it
to two other devices pretty much every
other switch vendor on the planet has
has had it forever but ubiquity has not
and now they do it occurs to me I did
not look through the cable accessory box
we have one cable the other cable for
the other power supply came in the power
supply box so that makes sense we have
oh nice lips in right there you get your
power cable plug it in and then Loop the
cord in the little thingy tighten it now
you can't accidentally yank this out not
all switches have this some Dell ones
I've interacted with have just just like
a cable tie looped around which I don't
know if is better than this this is
pretty pretty easy what else is in here
oh there is still ears can you run this
with just the ears I could check the
instructions nope doesn't say about
that see you
later screws for the rails nice more ear
things that's it man I think the only
thing left that's missing on this switch
is a dedicated management
Port that's the only thing I'm kind of
Going H about but let's turn it on wa is
it araba they have ether lighting which
is different when you have SFP and qsfp
ports because there's no like thing to
light up they just made the little
indicators light up that's cute do you
think they light up behind too I'm are
you ready
oh there's no RGB it's just our sponsor
vessie thanks to vessie for sponsoring
this video they offer all kinds of
stylish functional shoes for everyday
wear while keeping your socks dry in
less than desirable weather you can even
save up to 40% on select Styles at their
Black Friday sale right now our team
here loves their vessies because here in
Vancouver the weather is always so
unpredictable and their new Courtside
Classics have a sporty retro everyday
look with a padded tongue for extra
Comfort if you're more of a wild
Adventurer though their storm burst high
tops combine the comfort of a sneaker
with the grip and coverage of an outdoor
boot so don't miss out on their Black
Friday sale at vessie
docomo buddy that's how you network and
now this is all hooked up and ready to
try out I've got the firmware updated on
all of them we got our dream machine up
to date and I have a client machine here
this is a mini Forum ms01 it's a small
core I9 Mini PC that happens to have a
pcie slot so I went ahead and put in a
connectx 6 dual 25 gig card which will
allow us to Uplink this computer to both
of these switches I know for UniFi this
is unheard of but now M leg it should
just work uh right now I just have the
switches connected with one 100 Gig
cable and then to the dream machine with
a 25 gig cable but really it's running
at 10 gig we're going to go in and set
up the M leg in the software hopefully
uh and at that point we'll be able to
add another one of these cables so for
the top one that only has one power
supply it says the second power supply
is not installed cool so it's aware of
that on the bottom one which does have
both power supplies but one is unplugged
it just says 0% but it doesn't say
unplugged or anything like that so
ubiquity I know you're watching this so
probably fix that here's a further test
I want to take it out like mid
operation now will it complain no it
just says not installed so there's
probably some adjustments that can be
made there given this is one of the
first ubiquity products with redundant
power um I'm not too mad about that but
it's definitely something they should
look at improving cuz it would be really
good to know if your second power supply
that you're thinking is a backup isn't
installed or failed or somehow lost
power now let's try the UI I suspect the
M lag thing is under Port manager I do
kind of wonder if the speed has to
change in groups of four or groups of
two if you've ever used one of their
Enterprise xg2 24 switches which has the
two 25 gig ports on the side those two
ports if you want to use 25 gig on one
of them they both have to run at 25 gig
uh I don't know how that applies to this
switch if there's groupings like on Dell
switches a lot of the time it'll be like
four individual ports will be grouped
together so if you want them at 25 gig
they all have to be at 25 gig or if you
want to go 10 gig on one of them none of
them can do 25 gig I don't know how that
works on this switch so if I plug this
guy out of here and into this port
I
suspect it will not work because this
one is running at 25 gig it's not
lighting up okay what about this one oh
there we go okay so it
did it did light up okay let me put it
back over here and see cuz that took a
while oh wait it did turn on what the
hell what is this magic I mean don't get
me wrong it would be sick if all of
these ports could be independently
controlled between 25 and 10 gig like
the Dell switch that we have in the
server room is not like that when you
have any port set at 25 gig all of the
rest of the four in that group have to
also be at 25 gig which doesn't seem to
be the case here I don't know about the
one directly underneath let me try that
maybe they're grouped in twos I don't
know just for reference usually 25 gig
ports are grouped in fours because it's
like 100 Gig connection can split into
four no it turned on so the one on top
is at 25 gig and the one on the bottom
is at 10 gig sick it makes it seem like
in the dashboard that there's a
limitation I think that might just be
left over from the XG 24 uh it's
probably just anytime that 25 gig is set
it shows that warning but it doesn't
seem to be the case on this switch which
is awesome okay let's make our MC leg I
think we call this big big thicky
switches stacking optional combines the
top and bottom switch into a single
entry I'm going to try that off for now
and then we have multi-chassis link
directly connected ports between the top
and bottom switch to form the M leg and
forward traffic increases throughput
aggregating ports increases redundancy
okay set up so I picked 53 and 54 on
each hit save so far this UI is very
nice and easy and then Target devices
membership so Target devices is where
you would configure a client whether
that be another switch or a computer
which in our case we are using a
computer so let's go ahead and configure
and we'll say number one on both of them
but I could pick a different one
potentially is that what it is I'm in
number one yeah okay save hey it's doing
it there we go I guess we have a we have
a m lag now hey multi chassis link
status connected it seems like it just
took I don't know 30 seconds to kind of
do the magic behind the scenes um it
would be cool if there was like a
loading indicator that popped up in the
top right like Hey we're processing this
change or something like that just so
you knew what was going on uh but not
the end of the world I'm going to
configure this box now to have a link
aggregation and then we'll see if the
sauce works now that we've got our minis
Forum connected I can set up a link
aggregation says Target device
membership is not established please
check that all ports are connected with
the same speed and that a lag is
configured on the target device I just
configured the lag on the target device
so in theory now in a moment or two it
should pop up and say yo dog you're
lagreg gated hey connected look at that
this is now
running across two switches that's
pretty cool I mean I know that it's we
do this every day with the Dell switches
but this is this is new for you mcy this
is crazy I'm so excited now they have a
proper redundant option for like a
high-speed core switch not only is this
their first like 100 Gig offering but
it's also pretty compelling package they
actually built out the feature set
before releasing it which is really cool
it's got redundant power it's got
redundant cooling I don't know if
there's anything to complain about here
aside from the lack of a dedicated
Management Port how much does this thing
cost this is $4,000
us so if we have two that's $8,000 Us in
ubiquity land that's crazy I'm setting
up a second minis Forum so we can do a
little speed test and I just hit apply
so I have I perf running on one machine
as a server and on the other I'm running
it as a client it's doing 40 gbit and
this is just at 1500 MTU we're not using
jumbo frames or allowing the machines to
send bigger packets with less overhead
uh which is usually something you need
to do well less so these days but
frequently in the past something you
need to do to be able to achieve speeds
like this but 1500 MTU across both
switches like 50 gig these are only 25
gig ports that means it's using both
ports on our machines here I'm going to
do something a little funky and I'm not
going to Uplink both of them to both
switches I'm going to take one of them
and move it to a single switch that way
to achieve the full bandwidth of both
cables it will have to cross the links
that go between the two switches it
should be exactly the same realistically
we're not even close to put pushing
these switches at all oh I can't
actually do that it it blocks it out and
says use MC leg group to configure
aggregation I guess there's not really
any reason you you should do what I was
just proposing other than to just try
this out but that's interesting it would
be cool if you could name the
aggregation devices in here I know that
you can name the ports but it would be
sick if there was a name field and then
that automatically applied to the ports
itself I like on Dell's enter price
switches that you can basically put a
description on anything which is very
helpful ubiquity you should do that that
would be great so I'm going to unplug
one port from each of these devices
we'll unplug this mini Forum from the
top switch and then I'm going to unplug
this minis for them from the bottom
switch that way they're each connected
only to one of them so if we run a speed
test now that traffic is going to have
to go you know through this cable across
our multi chassis links to the other one
and I want to just make sure that that
still works yeah okay everything's fine
we're traversing our multi chassis links
like nothing even happened lovely if I
plug these back in will it just pick up
the
speed without having to restart the test
47 gabit very nice for the amount of
setup
required if you already had your devices
like computers or servers or switches
already plugged into to both ports
you're talking like 30 seconds of setup
the last thing I want to see is the
stack mode because that sounds pretty
dope and okay I wasn't really sure what
I was expecting but it's it's just two
switches on one page which yeah okay
great I mean overall this has been super
seamless I got to see what's inside this
switch though I'm GNA have to open it
LTT store Precision screwdriver set I
like while I take these things apart it
would be good to mention that they are
layer three switches so they are going
to have vrrp which is basically a
redundant routing protocol available
soon and then also bgp on these switches
which is pretty cool I think they're not
in the current Network version coming
soon kind of vibe so who knows when that
will be and I wouldn't buy it based on
that until that feature is out and
tested you can use this as a router run
a network on the individual switch have
it be DHCP or DHCP
relayed if you want I'm very curious to
see what type of switch chip is in here
because when they originally made the
kind of like demo Early Access version
of a 100 Gig switch which like I
mentioned before was a long time ago uh
it
used not like a tier one switch chip so
not from like broadcom or anything like
that it was from a less common SLP
poopular brand which some people did not
like hey oh look at that it's not that
full it's a fair bit of empty space in
here I mean it's not uncommon for
switches of this size it looks like the
reason for the empty space here is so
the power supplies fit and plug right
into the board show me what you've got
whoa what's going on here why is there a
land port what are you doing in there
ethernet Jack I swear to God if they
worked in the functionality to have a
management port and then decided not to
put it on oh my God that would be so so
silly looks like they got a custom PCB
here for the fan power and fan control
that's cool there's a seamos battery in
here I guess that makes sense this is an
fpga right here field programmable gate
array it's kind of like a CPU but can be
customized they usually use those on
applications where it's not worth
building custom silicon and still need
it to be fast and then an m.2 slot that
has no storage in it I'm I'm very
confused why there's like a daughter
board that has a lot of cooling on it it
looks like it could be
socketed which would be interesting I
mean what could be under here either a
CPU or a switch chip but I think over
here is the switch chip so this must be
a processor maybe oh what the hell this
is the computer that runs this switch
you see there's a memory slot there and
then if you look inside I'll take this
off there is another memory slot so this
is actually the brains of this switch I
don't know why it's on a daughter board
that's very very cool I guess that means
you could replace this if it failed I
mean usually the high-end switches from
other companies are also built in a
modular fashion like this at least to
some degree
hey look at that there's a Kingston Ram
stick it's a 16 GB ddr4 3200 megga
transfer stick and then that's an Intel
c3558 R CPU four cores four threads 2.4
G
base clock and it's 17 Watts it's from
2020 it's not a crazy CPU by any stretch
of the imagination I don't know what
kind of like throughput there is between
this board and the switch itself it's
not a crazy fast CPU on its own so I
imagine it's not doing a ton of fancy
routing stuff this computer module over
here is like this I guess because
they're going to use this platform for
other things but I found out the switch
actually runs Sonic which is an
open-source switch operating system
which is really cool so this little
computer here runs ubiquities management
software and Sonic and allows those to
work together and use this Sonic switch
with ubiquity controller and to manage
everything which is cool I mean Sonic is
great and I'm glad that they're using it
because seems like a pretty obvious
choice the question then is what switch
chip is this using Marvel this is a 98
CX
8514 a I mean that's great they're a big
name switch chip manufacturer I don't
know if people classify them as like the
best I know people kind of have a hard
on for broadc comp but yeah I guess I've
seen what I needed to see it would be
cool if they had m.2 storage on here so
that you could swap it but I guess if
you had an issue with the soldered
storage that's on here you could use the
m.2 slot here to replace it and
reinstall it seems like a pretty sick
switch it's four grand it's out of my
budget but if you're looking for a topof
rack switch that has multi- chassis link
aggregation and you need 25 or 100 Gig
seems like this could be a decently
affordable option I'm happy that they
did most of the feature stuff before
they released the switch if they had
released this and been like oh yeah ml
it's coming later I'd be like I know
that they still did that with bgp and
vrp but at least that is there and I'm
excited to see what other switches are
going to have ml come to them because
that's pretty sick feature so if you
like this video like the video get
subscribed to short circuit and if
you're looking for something else to
watch why not check out the UniFi Cloud
Gateway Max kind of a different vibe
than this but if you needed a cheap
controller cuz you spent all your money
on six switches I kind of doubt it makes
sense but maybe maybe it's an option